No, no. Drink, predominantly alcoholic would
have been beer. On the other side, it was Coca-Cola
on this campus. You couldn't go anywhere without
running into a Coca-Cola vending machine. Was
Whiskey Bridge operating in those days? No, sir. I
don't believe so. It had already closed down. I
have no recollection of Whiskey Bridge. other
than from maybe the 60s when I heard stories about
Ed's Hard Liquor. He was down here and then Whiskey
Bridge was over.
Was liquor by the drink legal yet in Brazos County?
Oh yes. Margaritas and so forth? No, I don't
remember margaritas being a very popular drink.
I really don't know what the, piña coladas is what I
remember. And in terms of smoking, were you and
your buddies even aware of the vocabulary of drugs
and marijuana and so forth? Were those words even
known? Yes, I probably was because of the border uh
atmosphere of drugs but uh even in laredo haskell i
was not exposed to a drug culture or students who
smoked pot or marijuana or cocaine or heroin did
anybody here that you ever heard of let me tell you i
i was at a lot of parties i was uh I was in a lot of
apartments, dorm rooms, cars, concerts, and
yeah, I saw a few people smoking marijuana, but I
never saw any cocaine, heroin, LSD, or drug sales
or anything like that. And
the chicken ranch was long gone. Long gone. Just a
myth to us. I have not heard any Aggies talk
anything about any kind of prostitution anywhere
in Brazos County that they ever heard of, or
bootleggers. Now, there was a massage parlor
called Lady T's or something like that out on
Highway 6 on the way to Houston. And some friends of
mine said they had been there and that they were
offered services beyond that of a massage parlor,
but that's all I know. All right. As you look back,
who were some people that if you had the capability
to thank them personally for what they meant to
you, who are some people who were here in whatever
capacity that you now realize had an important
effect on your life? Well, I'd say Herb Thompson
would be the first and foremost academically.
Edwin Cooper was a guy that was somewhat of a
guardian angel, even though I didn't know it.
probably helped me get in and out of Texas A&M.
Frank Litterst was a guy that adopted me and just
always I knew was there. You know, he wasn't part of
the campus per se, but A.W. Head-Davis, a local
attorney, was a classmate of my father's in the
class of 45 and just felt like a security blanket,
somebody I knew if I had trouble, particularly
being an attorney, although I never needed him for
anything. And Buck Wyrus, of all people, who even
as a nobody student encouraged me to come by and see
him. All right, for the sake of this machine,
describe Buck Wyrus for somebody that might never
have met him. Buck Wyrus never met a stranger.
Never met a stranger. um buck absolutely loved to
talk about texas aggies now you've heard about
people who and a lot of aggies are this way who love
to talk about texas a m and i think that's that's
admirable and it's true and it's accurate it's a
big part of our culture but buck wirus in my
experience with him loved to talk about Texas
Aggies. I maintained a lifelong relationship
with Buck until the day he died and had great
respect for him and admiration for the network and
the recollection and the intimate knowledge he
had of Aggies worldwide. It was just phenomenal.
And I never knew Buck, in my presence, to be down. He
always seemed upbeat, positive, energetic. If
Buck ever had a down day, I'm unaware of it. And he
had to have them in this role. I know that. I know
that.
How did A&M, let's see, we got off on Buck. Where are
some other people that you remember with
gratitude? I mentioned Frank Litterst. That's
L-I-T-T-E-R-S-T.
Yes, that's right. And his wife Royce. Just very
gracious people, always good to me. Wally Groff
was a guy that I remember at a time when I needed
something and it involved athletic tickets
because I'd lost some tickets my dad had sent me.
And I just went over and pleaded my case to Wally
Groff, and he took the time and listened to me and
shook my hand and took care of me. That was a big deal
to me. And he was then the ticket manager? He was
actually the athletic business manager is what he
was, yes. And I just remember that. Harry Green was
the assistant or associate executive director of
the then Aggie Club and had come to Laredo and given
a speech. with Buck and I went by to see him when I was
in school and he encouraged me to get involved in
the then student Aggie Club and I did and
ultimately became the first president of that
organized group in 1978 and 79 and that was a great
experience for me. It provided me with some
leadership opportunities. So Harry was a good guy
to know. Anyone else? Oh, I'm sure there are. I
could probably go on and on and on. As you look back,
how did, how well did A&M prepare you for the real
world of employment and so forth? How did, did A&M
play any role in your getting a job? Yes, it did. An
Aggie hired me out of A&M by the name of Ned Bruin,
who was with Hughes Tool Company. No interview.
All he said was, what do you want to work? And I don't
know if it was because he knew my dad or he was a
member of the class of 45 or he had been exposed to me
when I was a student in some of my leadership roles,
but I interviewed with several companies and Ned
Bruin finally told me, he says, you're coming to
work for me.
Qualities of being an Aggie. What is an Aggie? The
first thing that comes to mind is just a level of
honesty, even when it's not the most flattering.
I have been just impressed my entire life in
associating with Aggies who No matter what the
situation, honesty is the preeminent
characteristic that they all display. And that's
an endearing quality, even when it's, as I say, not
very flattering to the individual or the
situation or to Texas A&M. Just to know that people
can
be honest. Other qualities? Obviously pride.
I've talked about that already. Sometimes that's
a dangerous thing. It can get you in trouble when
you're a little clouded in your emotions of pride
about an institution like A&M. But it's certainly
a characteristic that I think the outside world
attributes to Texas Aggies. I'd have to say that in
my experience as executive director now and
traveling around with my peers, the attribute
that they usually associate with Texas Aggies is
tremendous pride and I think that's a great
quality to have if you have pride in your school I
bet you got pride in yourself to start with so you
couple that with the honesty and I think the
integrity and the old you know the Aggie
philosophy of Aggies don't lie cheat or steal or
tolerate those who do I hope carries on for forever
do Aggies care much about your ancestry oh yes
indeed And wait, I'm talking about what country
your ancestors came from. Oh, I don't know about
that. I was thinking more, you know, where you came
from and so on. I don't know. You know, I really
haven't examined that, Haskell. Actually, I
think of Aggies as being inclusive in terms of that
doesn't matter. Your dad was rich and mine was
poor, so what? No, no. That sort of thing.
As you were preparing to leave the campus with your
degree, what kind of world did you think you were
entering and how well prepared did you feel you
were because of A&M? You know, I felt more prepared
while I was a student than when I walked across that
stage with that tube in my hand and sat back down in
my seat and it just hit me. And I said, oh my God,
what? Now. And you just think of things that A&M
probably didn't prepare you for. Filling out your
own tax form. Now you graduated in spring?
December of 79. December of 79. Yeah, December of
79. Michael Halboody was my commencement
speaker. uh describe uh who came and how you how the
family my mother didn't come is what i remember
most she was ill my father came and and my only aunt
my father's sister came my sister my oldest sister
and my well both my sisters came and uh a cousin was
here i just felt a lot of support i'm sad my mother
couldn't be there interesting relative to ed
cooper who took, I want to say, a very sincere
interest in me during my days at A&M, and I know
monitored my progress without me knowing it.
He set up a little graduation party at his house for
me and told me that when I walked across the stage
and he shook my hand and, oh, I can't remember, the
interim president, Jarvis Miller, handed me my
tube, that my diploma would not be in there. He
said, don't panic. Your diploma will not be in
there. And I said, OK, but what does that mean? He
said, well, you'll find out. So that was in G.
Raleigh, Wyne. And I was a little panicked. I was
worried that maybe something had happened and I
didn't know about it. My whole family was here. And
we took pictures after the ceremony. We were all
outside having a big time. And then, of course, we
were supposed to go over to Mr. Cooper's. And I
thought we were just going to go over and have you
know, a picnic or something. Well, he had a
full-blown meal for family and guests and at an
appropriate point gathered everybody's
attention and had a nice big tube and he said some
nice things about me. and said, you know, Porter's
not going to impress anybody with his GPA, but he's
going to be a success in life because of all that he
represents. Anyway, he just said some nice things
about me and then proceeded to pull my diploma out
of the tube. And he said, this was hand signed by
Jarvis Miller, this week, and he said, and now I'm
going to hand sign it in front of all of you. And so
that meant a lot to me. That meant a lot to me. And
that's one of my real fond memories of A&M. See, now
I think commencement done the way we do it here is
another one of those key bonding events. Indeed. I
think it's having a little bit of a metamorphosis
right now, that we've moved to Reed Arena, and it's
undergoing a bit of an evolution like other big
schools have gone under for years. But we still
have more of a cohesive atmosphere around
commencement than most schools. See, at
Missouri, I had great trouble, first of all,
getting the deans to agree that we would have an
institutional commencement. They wanted to have
their own in their place. And they didn't want to
call out each name. And only about a third of the
students would even show up. And those who did,
when they got their diploma, they walked straight
out of the building and their family walked out. So
it wasn't at all a positive. But if we can keep aware
that everybody goes through, it's like Bonfire or
anything else, where we're all part of the same
feeling, I think that's very, very important.
Let's see, and you said you felt quite well
prepared. We're getting ready now to end this.
What if someone came up to you and gave you a check
for a million dollars with one condition on it? You
must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you get to decide
how that money would be used. If you could make a
momentous gift to A&M, for what purpose would you
want it used? Well, the first thing I'd do is make
sure the Association of Former Students brokered
that gift because this is the only organization
that I know of that touches 43,000 students, 2,500
faculty and administrators, and does an array of
so many good things for so many people.
It would be an easy and quick decision to say, do
what is best for Texas A&M with this money and not
tie it to some selfish interest on my behalf.
Okay. And then a request, if you have any Aggie
memorabilia letters, papers, journals, at some
point, for goodness sakes, be sure that it is
preserved either by this organization or by the
A&M Archives. I've preached that sermon to a
number of people, particularly to a lady whose
husband was an important president here who still
has them at her house. Oh, gosh, yes. And Ann and
everybody else is trying to persuade Mrs. Rutter
to And she's not doing it. And people are walking
away with them. She'll hand them. Ann says
strangers will drive up, sweet-talk Mrs. Rutter,
and they'll walk away with a letter signed by
MacArthur or a letter signed by Patton. And I'm
saying, oh, oh, oh, how priceless those would be.
Okay, last question. What feelings do you hold in
your heart for Texas A&M? my vocabulary is just not
big enough Haskell because of what A&M and I know
you've heard this from countless Aggies you've
interviewed because of what A&M has done for me
that I'll never be able to repay and in some form or
fashion service is a lot of my repayment but I just
can't imagine what kind of citizen what kind of
husband, father, what kind of person I'd be had I
not gone to A&M. Had I made that decision to go to the
University of Texas or to Texas Tech, I don't
think, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't be the person I am
today. Even though I had a tremendous upbringing
and a foundation for being successful in life by
virtue of my parents' efforts, A&M put the
finishing touches on me and introduced me to a
level of pride that I transferred to myself. And I
think that's been the difference in my life.
That's a good place.